docs: Modify Browser SPA docs for soft nav 2.1 feature GA (#21716)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/use-spa-data/spa-data-collection.mdx

  - /docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/use-spa-data/understand-collection-asynchronous-spa-data
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---
This document explains how browser collects and stores your asynchronous single page app (SPA) data. This will give you a better understanding of the [SPA data you see in the browser UI](/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/browser-ui/view-spa-data-new-relic-browser). This will also help you more easily add custom monitoring with the [SPA API](/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/use-spa-data/use-spa-api).

## Browser interactions [#browser-interaction]

At the heart of SPA monitoring is the concept of the <DNT>**browser interaction**</DNT>. New Relic defines a browser interaction, otherwise called a soft navigation, as the following sequence of events, drawing from [Google's heuristics](https://github.com/WICG/soft-navigations?tab=readme-ov-file#heuristics):

1. An user interaction occurs. We look specifically for `click`, `keydown` or `submit` events. The `popstate` event from the History API will also start an interaction.
2. The URL changes in any way, whether it's the path or hash.

> 3. Any changes, including to node attributes or text, occurs anywhere on the document DOM tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Any changes, including to node attributes or text, occurs anywhere on the document DOM tree. Following these steps, browser interactions are considered finished on the next repaint frame. They will also associate XHR and fetch requests started within their span.
```

> Following these steps, browser interactions are considered finished on the next repaint frame. They will also associate XHR and fetch requests started within their span. v2.1 introduced another step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 4. Monitor for long running callbacks for a period of 5 seconds. If any are detected, extend the interaction and repeat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. For SPA v2.1, Monitor for long running callbacks for a period of 5 seconds. If any are detected, extend the interaction and repeat.
```

> In this way, interactions will fully end when there's a silent period for long tasks. For extensions, any AjaxRequest and JavascriptError that occurred during the period up to the end of the observed long task will also become associated with the interaction. The duration of the interaction will not include those last 5 seconds. Step 4 may also be short-circuited or bypassed in some cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interactions will fully conclude when there is a 5-second period without any long tasks. During the extension period leading up to the end of the last observed long task, any AjaxRequest and JavascriptError that occur will also be associated with the interaction. Importantly, the duration of the interaction will not include the final 5 seconds of inactivity.

Note that step four may be short-circuited or bypassed in certain scenarios.
```

<Callout variant="tip">

>   The `popstate` event trigger is handled in a special way compared to the other UI event triggers because of its peculiarity in the browser. In short, a `popstate` that occurs within 500 ms after an other UI event like click will be merged into that existing interaction, whose trigger remains unchanged (e.g. 'click'). However, two back-to-back popstates will never be merged this way. Popstate-as-trigger interactions typically come from browser actions (back/forward button) and code (programmatic change to URL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `popstate` event trigger is managed uniquely compared to other UI event triggers due to its specific behavior in browsers. When a `popstate` event occurs within 500 milliseconds after another UI event like a click, it will be merged into the existing interaction initiated by that event, without changing the interaction's original trigger (e.g., 'click'). However, two consecutive `popstate` events will never be merged in this manner.

Interactions with `popstate` as their trigger typically originate from browser actions, such as using the back or forward button, or from code-related actions like programmatically changing the URL.
```

</Callout>

## Types of SPA data reporting [#spa-data]

@@ -39,54 +38,39 @@ Three major categories of single page app data can be reported to New Relic:

Each of these creates a `BrowserInteraction` event. If one or more AJAX requests are part of an interaction, then associated `AjaxRequest` events are also created. These events and their attributes can be queried in the [query builder](/docs/query-your-data/explore-query-data/query-builder/use-advanced-nrql-mode-specify-data).

<Callout variant="important">

>   Default or non-custom interactions do not wait for network requests to finish or load. They are tied to interactions on an as-is basis, meaning only if they are done before the interaction is harvested by the scheduler. It is entirely possible for slow or long duration requests that started as part of an interaction to miss this time window. Manually holding the interaction open until any cared-about request has return is possible through the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Default or non-custom interactions do not wait for network requests to complete. They are associated with interactions on an as-is basis, meaning that only requests completed before the interaction is harvested by the scheduler are tied to it. If a network request has a slow or long duration and starts as part of an interaction, it may fall outside this time window and not be associated with the interaction.

Alternatively, you can manually extend the duration of an interaction to ensure it remains open until any important network request returns by using the API.
```

* `pushState` or `replaceState` is called. SPAs commonly use these History API methods to update the URL.

Route changes appear along with initial page loads in the [browser UI](/docs/browser/single-page-app-monitoring/browser-ui/view-spa-data-new-relic-browser).

Note that the agent reports hash fragments from route change URLs. If you use hashes to pass private or sensitive data, that data may be visible to your New Relic account users. For more information about data collection and reporting, see [Security for browser](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/performance-quality/security-new-relic-browser).

## Custom monitoring [#api-custom-events]

All apps are different and have different monitoring needs. You can use the [SPA API](/docs/browser/new-relic-browser/browser-agent-spa-api) to customize your browser interactions or self define the way it's captured.

Custom events are saved as `BrowserInteraction` events and have the following difference in attributes:

* The `category` attribute will have the value `Custom`.
* The `trigger` attribute will have the value `api`. (This is the default value but can be changed with the API.)

> The API allows you to dictate when to start such custom interaction and when to end it, if the above heuristic does not fit your user base or app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API allows you to dictate when to start and stop such custom interaction, if the above heuristic does not fit your user base or app.
```
